

--- PAGE 1 ---
1
Inverse designing metamaterials with programmable
nonlinear functional responses in graph space
Marco Maurizi1*†, Derek Xu2†, Yu-Tong Wang3†, Desheng Yao1
, David Hahn1
, Mourad
Oudich3,4
, Anish Satpati1
, Mathieu Bauchy5
, Wei Wang2
, Yizhou Sun2
, Yun Jing3
, Xiaoyu Rayne
Zheng1*
1Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of California
Berkeley; Berkeley, 94720, USA.
2Department of Computer Science, University of California Los Angeles; Los Angeles,
90095, USA.
3Graduate Program in Acoustics, Penn State University; Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
4Universite’ de Lorraine, CNRS, Institut Jean Lamour; F-54000 Nancy, France.
5Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of California Los
Angeles; Los Angeles, 90095, USA.
*Corresponding authors. Emails: marcomaurizi@berkeley.edu, rayne23@berkeley.edu
†These authors contributed equally to this work.
Abstract
Material responses to static and dynamic stimuli, represented as nonlinear curves, are design
targets for engineering functionalities like structural support, impact protection, and acoustic and
photonic bandgaps. Three-dimensional metamaterials offer significant tunability due to their
internal structure, yet existing methods struggle to capture their complex behavior-to-structure
relationships. We present GraphMetaMat, a graph-based framework capable of designing three-
dimensional metamaterials with programmable responses and arbitrary manufacturing constraints.
Integrating graph networks, physics biases, reinforcement learning, and tree search,
GraphMetaMat can target stress-strain curves spanning four orders of magnitude and complex
behaviors, as well as viscoelastic transmission responses with varying attenuation gaps.
GraphMetaMat can create cushioning materials for protective equipment and vibration-damping
panels for electric vehicles, outperforming commercial materials, and enabling the automatic
design of materials with on-demand functionalities.
Introduction
Architecting the structure of metamaterials across scales allows for achieving properties and
functionalities not found in classical engineering materials, significantly expanding the traditional
design space (1–6). Examples include periodic truss metamaterials with high stiffness- and
strength-to-weight ratios (7, 8), lattice microstructures with tunable negative Poisson’s ratio (9,
10), and programmable anisotropic stiffness (11). Traditionally, the design process has been

--- PAGE 2 ---
2
guided by engineering intuition (12), nature-inspiration (13) or topology optimization (14), hinging
on prior expertise or computationally intensive calculations. While existing machine learning-
driven approaches efficiently optimize specific properties (10, 15–23), a key challenge remains in
capturing complex, on-demand functionalities (24).
The characteristic fingerprints of materials, such as static and dynamic stress-strain responses,
wave transmission and absorption responses to dynamic loadings, are influenced by the nonlinear
interplay between constitutive material behavior, architecture, and applied loads. Metamaterials
offer broad control over these responses (25, 26), but this tunability comes with increased
complexity. As the design space expands to include intricate structures and complex material
behaviors, the data required explodes, making the process computationally or experimentally
expensive and limiting design diversity (25, 27). Most current design approaches for metamaterials
rely on preassigned parametrization groups (28) or combinations of existing unit cell designs (15,
29, 30). Moreover, as most inverse design approaches depend on gradient-based algorithms (25,
27, 31), enforcing geometrical and manufacturing constraints becomes challenging, exacerbating
the data-hungry issue.
To address these challenges, we introduce GraphMetaMat, a graph-based framework that uses
graph neural networks (GNNs) as basic building blocks. It combines deep imitation learning (IL)
and reinforcement learning (RL) with Monte Carlo tree search (MCTS) as an unsupervised
generative model to inverse design graph-representable metamaterials with prescribed nonlinear
functional responses (e.g., stress-strain and wave transmission curves) resulting from complex
physical phenomena (e.g., buckling, contact, resonance, and damping). Our framework
architecture can accommodate any graph-representable metamaterial and nonlinear physical
response, incorporating arbitrary geometric constraints. We focus on the inverse design of truss
metamaterials with prescribed quasi-static stress-strain and wave transmission curves as impactful
proofs of concept.
Our results demonstrate that GraphMetaMat can rapidly generate metamaterial designs with stress
responses spanning four orders of magnitude up to 30 % of strain and wave transmission curves
with tunable attenuation gaps (i.e., low transmission values) in the frequency range 1 – 12 kHz.
Additionally, applying our framework to real-world engineering problems, we show that
GraphMetaMat can discover lightweight metamaterials with high energy absorption yet low peak
stress for protective equipment and with low vibration transmission for noise-reduction panels in
electric vehicles. While generalization to different loading conditions (e.g., multi-axial loading)
and constitutive materials requires additional data, our framework provides a tool to navigate and
unify the vast design space enabled by architected materials and additive manufacturing, setting
the stage for fully automated discovery and design of metamaterials.
Results
Metamaterial-to-graph space
Translating metamaterials into graphs allows us to exploit the inductive biases of GNNs (32). In
this ‘graph space’ (Fig. 1A), metamaterial struts and junctions (intersections between struts) are
represented as graph edges (𝐸𝐸) and nodes (𝑉𝑉), respectively. The geometry, including node
locations and strut shapes and dimensions (e.g., strut radius), is hence encoded into node (𝑣𝑣𝑖𝑖) and
edge (𝑒𝑒𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖) features (see Materials and Methods). The topology of the metamaterial, i.e., which
struts connect to each other, is captured by graph connectivity, eliminating the need to parametrize
the design space with pre-existing structures (28, 30, 33) or pre-selected building blocks (29, 34).

--- PAGE 3 ---
3
To test our inverse design framework, we restricted the design space to cubic symmetric periodic
truss metamaterials (Fig. 1A and figs. S1 and S5), similarly to (35). While we adopted this design
space, we emphasize that any three-dimensional (3D) truss architecture (either homogeneous or
heterogeneous, Fig. 1, A and B, respectively), made of any constitutive material, can be
represented using graphs, without limitations to regular periodic (27, 36, 37) or 2D structures (29,
38, 39). Cubic symmetry ensures invariant mechanical properties along three orthogonal directions
and facilitates the generation of heterogeneous metamaterials by modifying only the interior nodes
and connectivity (Fig. 1B), thus avoiding boundary node-matching methods (34). The chosen
design space also includes classical stretching- and bending-dominated lattices, such as octet and
Kelvin foams, as well as bi-stable structures (fig. S3). Detailed information is provided in Materials
and Methods and Supplementary Text.
This potentially unlimited design space, while challenging, offers the opportunity to design
metamaterials with a wide variety of physical responses. To train our framework, we collected ∼
3000 graph-curve data points via high-fidelity simulations for quasi-static stress-strain and wave
transmission responses (see Materials and Methods). Each graph represents a metamaterial with
varying geometry, topology, and relative density, 𝜌𝜌 (ranging from 5 to 25 %). Figure 1, C and D
show the corresponding response space of our datasets. The compressive and vibrational responses
exhibit a rich diversity of complex behaviors, as highlighted by the three examples for each
response type (see also figs. S11 and 20). This vast design space enables our framework to inverse
design target functional responses, spanning orders of magnitude in stress and featuring complex
transmission characteristics.
GraphMetaMat – a framework for the design of metamaterials
Our inverse-design framework, GraphMetaMat, is illustrated in Fig. 2. Initially, we train a forward
GNN-based model on simulated data to learn the behavior of metamaterials in the graph space,
mapping structure to functional response (Fig. 2C and fig. S23). This model is then used as a fast
surrogate predictor within the inverse-design framework. Next, in an IL setting, a GNN-based
policy network, 𝜋𝜋𝜃𝜃, is pre-trained to learn the correct sequence of actions, {𝒂𝒂0, … , 𝒂𝒂𝐾𝐾}, including
nodes, edges and relative density, 𝜌𝜌 (Fig. 2A, upper left), needed to reconstruct the ground-truth
graphs (𝐺𝐺) associated with the training input curves. Given the current state 𝒔𝒔𝑘𝑘, composed of the
current graph (𝐺𝐺𝑘𝑘) and the target curve (𝑦𝑦), 𝜋𝜋𝜃𝜃 provides the action 𝒂𝒂𝑘𝑘+1 to build the next graph
state (𝒔𝒔𝑘𝑘+1). After IL, RL fine-tunes 𝜋𝜋𝜃𝜃 to generate graphs whose responses closely match the
desired input curves (plot in Fig. 2C). The policy network’s weights are updated using a proximal
policy optimization scheme (40), aiming to maximize the future expected reward 𝑅𝑅 = 𝑤𝑤JJ −
𝑤𝑤U 𝑈𝑈, where 𝐽𝐽 measures the similarity between the curves, 𝑈𝑈 is the forward model's uncertainty,
and 𝑤𝑤J and 𝑤𝑤U are weighting hyperparameters. This approach overcomes the typical one-to-many
mapping issue (i.e., multiple designs for a given target response) by learning the conditional
probability and sampling from it to get a unique solution.
Once trained, we use MCTS rollouts to estimate the value of each state 𝒔𝒔𝑘𝑘 in a search tree (Fig.
2A, upper right) by sampling each action 𝒂𝒂𝑘𝑘+1∼ 𝜋𝜋𝜃𝜃(∙ |𝒔𝒔𝑘𝑘) from its probability distribution over
actions. The model iteratively samples multiple generated graphs and selects the best one from
128 iterations, significantly improving inverse design performance (fig. S35). As a validation step,
the corresponding structure is 3D-printed and tested (Fig. 2D). Complete technical details are
provided in Materials and Methods and Supplementary Text.
Overall, by employing IL for pre-training on graph-labeled training curves, RL for fine-tuning on
unlabeled curves, and MCTS for refining the search method, GraphMetaMat can generate a graph

--- PAGE 4 ---
4
corresponding to a metamaterial with the desired behavior (within an average tolerance of 10%)
and adhere to any geometric constraints (e.g., manufacturing constraints).
Inverse design of user-defined responses
Designing structures to match unseen target curves with known associated graphs (i.e., test set) is
a meaningful task to assess model performance (fig. S28). However, the inverse design of user-
defined curves, where the existence of an associated structure is not guaranteed, is more
challenging. To address this, we designed four stress-strain and three wave transmission response
types that extend beyond the dataset response space (Fig. 3, A and D). Key to this task were the
physics bias for stress predictions (fig. S23, bottom diagram), extended 𝜌𝜌 search (2 – 30 %), and
pre-training of the forward model (∼ 90 % accuracy on 3000 labeled data) (fig. S25).
The four classes of stress-strain responses are: (i) stiffer and stronger than the most rigid structure
in the dataset; (ii) convex with strain hardening; (iii) concave with strain hardening and/or
softening; and (iv) softer than the most compliant structure in the dataset (see Materials and
Methods). For each type, Fig. 3B shows a randomly selected target response, the corresponding
prediction, the simulation of the generated graph (Fig. 3C), and the closest curve from the training
dataset (best train match). The relative error between the target and predicted curves ranges from
1.98 to 6.85 %. While simulations of the generated structures exhibit higher errors (from 1.8 to 30
%), the qualitative behavior is remarkably captured, even outside the training range of 𝜌𝜌.
Generalizing on stiffer and stronger structures (i) appears more challenging than for more
compliant structures (iv), likely due to the higher proportion of softer structures in the training set
(fig. S15, A and B). When benchmarked against the best train match, GraphMetaMat shows similar
or larger errors for types (i), (ii), and (iii), except for (iv), where softer designs seem to be more
easily accessible. Nonetheless, comparing error distributions on 2,000 targets, GraphMetaMat
outperforms in average both the best train match (fig. S33A) and random structure selection (fig.
S35B, no search and untrained policy network) by ∼ 3 and 263 times, respectively.
Defining realistic target transmission curves is more challenging than shaping realistic stress-strain
responses. Applications often require metamaterials with specific attenuation gaps (low
transmission in certain frequency ranges) rather than exact transmission values. To this end,
instead of targeting transmission curves 𝑇𝑇(𝑓𝑓), we target binary sequences defined by thresholding
𝑇𝑇 with 𝑇𝑇 𝑡𝑡ℎ, where ‘0’ corresponds to ‘low transmission’ (𝑇𝑇 < 𝑇𝑇 𝑡𝑡ℎ) and ‘1’ to ‘high transmission’
(𝑇𝑇 ≥ 𝑇𝑇 𝑡𝑡ℎ). During training, GraphMetaMat still predicts the transmission curve, which is then
binarized for comparison with the target sequence. To challenge the model on the inverse design
of tunable attenuation gaps (𝑇𝑇 < 𝑇𝑇 𝑡𝑡ℎ), we defined three target types with varying gap sizes Δ𝑓𝑓,
from ∼1.4 to 2.1 and 2.7 kHz, respectively (Fig. 3D). Various sequences were generated by
shifting the central frequency of the two gaps (Materials and Methods). We set 𝑇𝑇 𝑡𝑡ℎ = −10 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑, a
reasonable threshold for vibration attenuation. Figure 3E shows one example of inverse design per
type. GraphMetaMat's predictions and simulations of the generated structures are benchmarked
against the best train matches. GraphMetaMat exhibits an accuracy on the target attenuation gaps
of ∼ 0.8, outperforming the best train match by ∼108, 58, and 17 % for types (i), (ii), and (iii),
respectively. The corresponding simulated responses show lower accuracy due to the forward
model’s error but still outperform the best train matches by ∼ 30, 32, and 6 %. Unlike stress-strain
predictions, the accuracy distribution of model predictions on target sequences (fig. S33C) is only
comparable to that of the best train match. Yet, GraphMetaMat outperforms random structure
selection (no search and untrained policy network) by ∼ 1.3 times on average (fig. S35, E).

--- PAGE 5 ---
5
Energy-absorbing and noise-control applications
To challenge our model, we applied GraphMetaMat to design cushioning material for a lacrosse
chest protector and a vibration-damping panel for electric vehicles. Figure 4A shows a commercial
lacrosse chest protector composed of four different foam layers (inset in Fig. 4B and fig. S37, A
and B). This foam sandwich is designed to prevent commotio cordis, “the second leading cause of
death among young athletes” (41), which occurs upon a 30 – 50 mph impact to the chest, causing
ventricular fibrillation (42). To mitigate this phenomenon, standards (43) require specific
transmitted peak forces for certified protectors. Although designing a certified protector under
dynamic impact is beyond the scope of this work, we aimed to design 3D-printed cellular
metamaterials with energy-absorbing performance comparable or superior to that of commercial
protector foams. Specifically, reducing the transmitted peak force translates to simultaneously
lowering the peak stress (𝜎𝜎max) and increasing the energy absorption (𝑈𝑈) (area underneath the
curve) during impact (Supplementary Text “Energy-absorbing and noise-control applications”).
To achieve this goal, using the measured average compressive response of the foam sandwich as
a baseline (Fig. 4B), we targeted stress-strain curves with lower peak stress and the same or higher
energy absorption (Fig. 4C) (Materials and Methods). To reduce the cost of high strain-rate
training data, we first targeted quasi-static responses with our model and verified the results with
dynamic impact simulations (fig. S38, F to H).
Restricting the design to structures with relative density between 5 and 10 %, Fig. 4D shows an
example of metamaterial generated to achieve a response with 30 % lower peak stress and 20 %
higher energy absorption. While the predicted response of the generated structure closely matches
the target curve with an average relative error of ∼ 4.3 % (fig. S35C), the corresponding
experimental error is higher at ∼ 27 %. Despite this, the target shape is well captured (inset up to
30 % of strain in Fig. 4D), and the inverse-designed metamaterial outperforms the commercial
four-layer sandwich foams by exhibiting similar peak stress (∼ 0.003 MPa) yet ∼ 53 % higher
energy absorption (Fig. 4E). Similar performance improvements over classical 3D-printed Kelvin
foam and octet architectures are also shown in Fig. 4E. Owing to its periodicity, the generated
metamaterial demonstrates a prolonged stress plateau compared to the protector’s foams, thereby
achieving higher energy absorption efficiency (fig. S38A). Although Kelvin foam and octet
structures exhibit similar longer stress plateau, the generated design combines a higher stiffness
with buckling (inset and snapshots in Fig. 4D) to achieve the target requirements. Simulations
assuming the same constitutive material (fig. S38) confirm that our results primarily stem from
geometrical and topological effects, and hold under both quasi-static and high strain-rate impact
conditions (strain rate, 𝜀𝜀̇ ∼ 344 s−1).
Fig. 5A shows the various sources of noise inside an electric vehicle (44). Although electric motors
are generally quieter than internal combustion engines, the pure tonal noise at frequencies above
1 kHz (Fig. 5B) generated by electromagnetic forces is perceived as more annoying (45). This
tonal noise varies with speed, with frequency increasing at higher speeds. Focusing on structure-
borne noise, generated by structural vibrations in the frequency range 1 – 12 kHz (Fig. 5, A and
B), we aimed to design metamaterials with broadband low transmission response. To achieve this
and to challenge our model on tunable transmission levels, we considered constant target curves
from 5 down to −40 dB (Fig. 5C). Figure 5E shows four examples of inverse-designed structures
for decreasing vibration transmission levels, with corresponding predictions, experiments, and
benchmarks. The benchmark (46) was selected from state-of-the-art metamaterials optimized for
broadband vibration filtering (46, 47) (figs. S36). For each level, the generated structures display
oscillating behaviors as expected, with average experimental values deviating by ∼100, 149, 16,

--- PAGE 6 ---
6
8 % from the targets for (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), respectively. As the transmission level is lowered, the
predicted response shifts down accordingly, to −40 dB, corresponding to a structure with
broadband low transmission (𝑇𝑇 < −20 dB). Interestingly, the relative density 𝜌𝜌 of the inverse-
designed structures gradually decreases from (i) to (iv) (Fig. 5D). A correlation between low
transmission and 𝜌𝜌 seems to exist, as observed in our dataset (figs. S21 and S22). This can be
explained by the shift of the first resonance frequency (𝑓𝑓 1) of the structure to lower frequencies,
relying on simple scaling laws (Supplementary Text “Energy-absorbing and noise-control
applications”). Nevertheless, the design of metamaterials with tunable transmission is enabled by
the simultaneous control of topology and relative density (fig. S19). Unlike the benchmark, which
has high transmission at frequencies below 4 kHz and achieves attenuation gaps with additional
mass, our designs (iii) and (iv) mitigate structure-borne noise across the entire frequency range
while remaining lightweight (Fig. 5D and fig. S36).
Discussion
Designing metamaterials with programmable physical responses addresses the need for
customizable materials. In this work, we introduced GraphMetaMat, a graph-based framework for
inverse designing metamaterials with diverse complex functional responses. Although tested on
mechanical truss metamaterials, the framework can be extended to any graph-representable
metamaterials and physical responses. Compared to graph-based generative models, such as
generative adversarial networks (48) and variational autoencoders (49), and prior inverse design
frameworks (27, 29, 31, 50), GraphMetaMat offers several advantages: (1) it explicitly imposes
structural constraints (e.g., periodic repeatability, self-connectivity, manufacturability) via the
action space, ensuring valid designs; (2) it handles any graph-based metamaterial, regardless of
topology and size; (3) it operates at inference time generating hundreds of structures with different
target responses without costly optimizations; (4) it controls both topology and relative density,
resulting in a large design-response space. For simplicity, we focused on designing single
functional responses. However, using the same constitutive materials, GraphMetaMat could be
extended to design multiple responses simultaneously (e.g., responses along multiple directions),
enabling rapid automatic design of multifunctional metamaterials.
References and Notes
1. H. Cui, D. Yao, R. Hensleigh, H. Lu, A. Calderon, Z. Xu, S. Davaria, Z. Wang, P. Mercier, P. Tarazaga, X.
(Rayne) Zheng, Design and printing of proprioceptive three-dimensional architected robotic metamaterials.
Science 376, 1287–1293 (2022).
2. J. Bauer, L. R. Meza, T. A. Schaedler, R. Schwaiger, X. Zheng, L. Valdevit, Nanolattices: An Emerging Class
of Mechanical Metamaterials. Advanced Materials 29, 1701850 (2017).
3. E. T. Filipov, T. Tachi, G. H. Paulino, Origami tubes assembled into stiff, yet reconfigurable structures and
metamaterials. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 112, 12321–12326 (2015).
4. C. M. Portela, B. W. Edwards, D. Veysset, Y. Sun, K. A. Nelson, D. M. Kochmann, J. R. Greer, Supersonic
impact resilience of nanoarchitected carbon. Nat. Mater. 20, 1491–1497 (2021).
5. T. A. Schaedler, A. J. Jacobsen, A. Torrents, A. E. Sorensen, J. Lian, J. R. Greer, L. Valdevit, W. B. Carter,
Ultralight Metallic Microlattices. Science 334, 962–965 (2011).
6. X. Xia, C. M. Spadaccini, J. R. Greer, Responsive materials architected in space and time. Nat Rev Mater 7,
683–701 (2022).

--- PAGE 7 ---
7
7. X. Zheng, H. Lee, T. H. Weisgraber, M. Shusteff, J. DeOtte, E. B. Duoss, J. D. Kuntz, M. M. Biener, Q. Ge, J.
A. Jackson, S. O. Kucheyev, N. X. Fang, C. M. Spadaccini, Ultralight, ultrastiff mechanical metamaterials.
Science 344, 1373–1377 (2014).
8. L. R. Meza, S. Das, J. R. Greer, Strong, lightweight, and recoverable three-dimensional ceramic nanolattices.
Science 345, 1322–1326 (2014).
9. S. Babaee, J. Shim, J. C. Weaver, E. R. Chen, N. Patel, K. Bertoldi, 3D Soft Metamaterials with Negative
Poisson’s Ratio. Advanced Materials 25, 5044–5049 (2013).
10. T. Meier, R. Li, S. Mavrikos, B. Blankenship, Z. Vangelatos, M. E. Yildizdag, C. P. Grigoropoulos, Obtaining
auxetic and isotropic metamaterials in counterintuitive design spaces: an automated optimization approach and
experimental characterization. npj Comput Mater 10, 3 (2024).
11. S. Xu, J. Shen, S. Zhou, X. Huang, Y. M. Xie, Design of lattice structures with controlled anisotropy. Materials
& Design 93, 443–447 (2016).
12. S. S. Injeti, C. Daraio, K. Bhattacharya, Metamaterials with engineered failure load and stiffness. Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 116, 23960–23965 (2019).
13. M. C. Fernandes, J. Aizenberg, J. C. Weaver, K. Bertoldi, Mechanically robust lattices inspired by deep-sea
glass sponges. Nat. Mater. 20, 237–241 (2021).
14. S. Wu, Z. Luo, Z. Li, S. Liu, L.-C. Zhang, Topological design of pentamode metamaterials with additive
manufacturing. Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering 377, 113708 (2021).
15. J.-H. Bastek, S. Kumar, B. Telgen, R. N. Glaesener, D. M. Kochmann, Inverting the structure–property map of
truss metamaterials by deep learning. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 119, e2111505119 (2022).
16. S. Kumar, S. Tan, L. Zheng, D. M. Kochmann, Inverse-designed spinodoid metamaterials. npj Comput Mater
6, 73 (2020).
17. B. Li, B. Deng, W. Shou, T.-H. Oh, Y. Hu, Y. Luo, L. Shi, W. Matusik, Computational discovery of
microstructured composites with optimal stiffness-toughness trade-offs. Sci. Adv. 10, eadk4284 (2024).
18. H. Liu, L. Li, Z. Wei, M. M. Smedskjaer, X. R. Zheng, M. Bauchy, De Novo Atomistic Discovery of
Disordered Mechanical Metamaterials by Machine Learning. Advanced Science 11, 2304834 (2024).
19. S. Luan, E. Chen, J. John, S. Gaitanaros, A data-driven framework for structure-property correlation in ordered
and disordered cellular metamaterials. Sci. Adv. 9, eadi1453 (2023).
20. Y. Mao, Q. He, X. Zhao, Designing complex architectured materials with generative adversarial networks. Sci.
Adv. 6, eaaz4169 (2020).
21. S. C. Shen, M. J. Buehler, Nature-inspired architected materials using unsupervised deep learning. Commun
Eng 1, 37 (2022).
22. S. Van ’T Sant, P. Thakolkaran, J. Martínez, S. Kumar, Inverse-designed growth-based cellular metamaterials.
Mechanics of Materials 182, 104668 (2023).
23. L. Zheng, S. Kumar, D. M. Kochmann, Data-driven topology optimization of spinodoid metamaterials with
seamlessly tunable anisotropy. Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering 383, 113894 (2021).
24. X. Zheng, X. Zhang, T. Chen, I. Watanabe, Deep Learning in Mechanical Metamaterials: From Prediction and
Generation to Inverse Design. Advanced Materials 35, 2302530 (2023).

--- PAGE 8 ---
8
25. J.-H. Bastek, D. M. Kochmann, Inverse design of nonlinear mechanical metamaterials via video denoising
diffusion models. Nat Mach Intell 5, 1466–1475 (2023).
26. N. J. Gerard, M. Oudich, Z. Xu, D. Yao, H. Cui, C. J. Naify, A. Ikei, C. A. Rohde, X. (Rayne) Zheng, Y. Jing,
Three-Dimensional Trampolinelike Behavior in an Ultralight Elastic Metamaterial. Phys. Rev. Applied 16,
024015 (2021).
27. L. Zheng, K. Karapiperis, S. Kumar, D. M. Kochmann, Unifying the design space and optimizing linear and
nonlinear truss metamaterials by generative modeling. Nat Commun 14, 7563 (2023).
28. C. S. Ha, D. Yao, Z. Xu, C. Liu, H. Liu, D. Elkins, M. Kile, V. Deshpande, Z. Kong, M. Bauchy, X. Zheng,
Rapid inverse design of metamaterials based on prescribed mechanical behavior through machine learning. Nat
Commun 14, 5765 (2023).
29. M. Maurizi, C. Gao, F. Berto, Inverse design of truss lattice materials with superior buckling resistance. npj
Comput Mater 8, 247 (2022).
30. A. J. Lew, K. Jin, M. J. Buehler, Designing architected materials for mechanical compression via simulation,
deep learning, and experimentation. npj Comput Mater 9, 80 (2023).
31. P. Thakolkaran, M. A. Espinal, S. Dhulipala, S. Kumar, C. M. Portela, Experiment-informed finite-strain
inverse design of spinodal metamaterials. arXiv [Preprint] (2023).
https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2312.11648.
32. K. Xu, W. Hu, J. Leskovec, S. Jegelka, How Powerful are Graph Neural Networks? arXiv [Preprint] (2018).
https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.1810.00826.
33. A. J. Lew, M. J. Buehler, Single-shot forward and inverse hierarchical architected materials design for
nonlinear mechanical properties using an Attention-Diffusion model. Materials Today 64, 10–20 (2023).
34. K. Liu, R. Sun, C. Daraio, Growth rules for irregular architected materials with programmable properties.
Science 377, 975–981 (2022).
35. J. Panetta, Q. Zhou, L. Malomo, N. Pietroni, P. Cignoni, D. Zorin, Elastic textures for additive fabrication.
ACM Trans. Graph. 34, 1–12 (2015).
36. P. P. Indurkar, S. Karlapati, A. J. D. Shaikeea, V. S. Deshpande, Predicting deformation mechanisms in
architected metamaterials using GNN. doi: 10.48550/ARXIV.2202.09427 (2022).
37. L. Makatura, B. Wang, Y.-L. Chen, B. Deng, C. Wojtan, B. Bickel, W. Matusik, Procedural Metamaterials: A
Unified Procedural Graph for Metamaterial Design. ACM Trans. Graph. 42, 1–19 (2023).
38. M. Maurizi, C. Gao, F. Berto, Predicting stress, strain and deformation fields in materials and structures with
graph neural networks. Sci Rep 12, 21834 (2022).
39. D. Dold, D. Aranguren Van Egmond, Differentiable graph-structured models for inverse design of lattice
materials. Cell Reports Physical Science 4, 101586 (2023).
40. J. Schulman, F. Wolski, P. Dhariwal, A. Radford, O. Klimov, Proximal Policy Optimization Algorithms. doi:
10.48550/ARXIV.1707.06347 (2017).
41. E. I. Drewniak, D. B. Spenciner, J. J. Crisco, Mechanical Properties of Chest Protectors and the Likelihood of
Ventricular Fibrillation Due to Commotio Cordis. Journal of Applied Biomechanics 23, 282–288 (2007).

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
42. K. Kumar, S. N. Mandleywala, M. P. Gannon, N. A. M. Estes, J. Weinstock, M. S. Link, Development of a
Chest Wall Protector Effective in Preventing Sudden Cardiac Death by Chest Wall Impact (Commotio Cordis).
Clinical Journal of Sport Medicine 27, 26–30 (2017).
43. N. Dau, C. Bir, E. McCalley, D. Halstead, M. S. Link, Development of the NOCSAE Standard to Reduce the
Risk of Commotio Cordis. Circ: Arrhythmia and Electrophysiology 17 (2024).
44. A. K. Sahu, A. Emadi, B. Bilgin, Noise and Vibration in Switched Reluctance Motors: A Review on Structural
Materials, Vibration Dampers, Acoustic Impedance, and Noise Masking Methods. IEEE Access 11, 27702–
27718 (2023).
45. B. Meek, H. Van Der Auwear, K. De Langhe, “Challenges in NVH for Electric Vehicles” in Proceedings of the
FISITA 2012 World Automotive Congress, SAE-China, FISITA, Eds. (Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin,
Heidelberg, 2013; https://link.springer.com/10.1007/978-3-642-33777-2_56)vol. 191 of Lecture Notes in
Electrical Engineering, pp. 675–685.
46. Muhammad, C. W. Lim, Phononic metastructures with ultrawide low frequency three-dimensional bandgaps as
broadband low frequency filter. Sci Rep 11, 7137 (2021).
47. F. Lucklum, M. J. Vellekoop, Bandgap engineering of three-dimensional phononic crystals in a simple cubic
lattice. Applied Physics Letters 113, 201902 (2018).
48. H. Wang, J. Wang, J. Wang, M. Zhao, W. Zhang, F. Zhang, X. Xie, M. Guo, GraphGAN: Graph
Representation Learning With Generative Adversarial Nets. AAAI 32 (2018).
49. Q. Liu, M. Allamanis, M. Brockschmidt, A. L. Gaunt, Constrained Graph Variational Autoencoders for
Molecule Design. arXiv [Preprint] (2018). https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.1805.09076.
50. B. Deng, A. Zareei, X. Ding, J. C. Weaver, C. H. Rycroft, K. Bertoldi, Inverse Design of Mechanical
Metamaterials with Target Nonlinear Response via a Neural Accelerated Evolution Strategy. Advanced
Materials 34, 2206238 (2022).
51. V. Dorléans, R. Delille, D. Notta-Cuvier, F. Lauro, E. Michau, Time-temperature superposition in
viscoelasticity and viscoplasticity for thermoplastics. Polymer Testing 101, 107287 (2021).
Acknowledgments: We acknowledge Olivia Chen for her assistance in characterizing the
commercial chest protector foams. We also thank Haotian Lu for his help in setting up the
vibration experiments. Additionally, we used OpenAI ChatGPT to proofread the abstract and
main text of the manuscript.
Funding:
US National Science Foundation (NSF) DMREF grant 2119643
US National Science Foundation (NSF) grant 1829071
US National Science Foundation (NSF) grant 2106859
US National Science Foundation (NSF) grant 2312501
US National Science Foundation (NSF) grant 2312501
US Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) grant HR00112490370
US National Science Foundation (NSF) grant 2312501
US National Science Foundation (NSF) DMREF grant 2119545

--- PAGE 10 ---
10
Author contributions:
Conceptualization: XRZ, MM, WW, YS, MB, YJ,
Methodology: MM, DX, YTW, DY, XRZ, WW, YS, MB, YJ
Investigation: MM, DX, YTW, DY, DH, MO, AS
Visualization: MM, YTW, DY
Funding acquisition: XRZ, WW, YS, MB, YJ
Project administration: XRZ, WW, YS, MB, YJ
Supervision: XRZ, WW, YS, MB, YJ
Writing – original draft: MM, DX
Writing – review & editing: MM, XRZ, DX, YTW, DY, MO, WW, YS, YJ
Competing interests: Authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Data and materials availability: The datasets and codes developed in the current study will
be freely open sourced at the time of publication.

--- PAGE 11 ---
11
Figures
Fig. 1. Graph-response design space. (A) Graph space for metamaterials with geometrical and
topological features. A periodic truss metamaterial is shown, together with the corresponding node and
edge features used in the GNNs. The unit cell is translated onto a graph 𝐺𝐺(𝑉𝑉, 𝐸𝐸), with 𝑉𝑉 a collection of
nodes connected through edges 𝐸𝐸. Geometric information is encoded into node 𝑣𝑣𝑖𝑖 and edge 𝑒𝑒𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖 features.
Topological information is encoded as inductive bias into the graph connectivity. (B) Construction of
heterogeneous metamaterials from individual unit cells belonging to our test design space (fig. S5). The
graphs in the tetrahedra show the only needed constraints at the boundaries of the unit cells. (C) Stress-
strain response space from the collected dataset. The stress is normalized by the constitutive material’s
Young’s modulus 𝐸𝐸𝑠𝑠. The curves (i), (ii), and (iii) are three examples of macroscopic softening and
hardening. The last plot on the right shows the corresponding strength (𝜎𝜎max) – stiffness (𝐸𝐸) property
space, highlighting the orders of magnitude 𝛰𝛰(10𝑚𝑚) spanned, with 𝑚𝑚 = 3 for strength, and 4 for
stiffness. (D) Vibration transmission response space from the collected dataset. (i), (ii), and (iii) identify
responses with small attenuation gap, high, and low transmission, respectively. The sketch next to the
response space shows how the transmission response is determined. It is measured as the log-ratio
between the Fourier transforms of the output acceleration at the center point of the top plate and the input
acceleration at the bottom plate (see also fig. S9).
Nodes
Edges
Stress-strain
Strain, 𝜀𝜀 (%)
Norm. stress, 𝜎𝜎/𝐸𝐸𝑠 (-)
Δ𝐸𝐸 ∼ Ο(104)
Relative density, 𝜌𝜌 (-)
𝜎𝜎max − E
Δ𝜎𝜎max
∼ Ο(103)
5
10
15
20
25
Functional responses
Edge features
Graph space Heterogeneous metamaterials
Graph: 𝐺𝐺 𝑉𝑉, 𝐸𝐸
Topology
Edge features, 𝑒𝑒𝑖𝑖𝑗𝑗
Node features, 𝑣𝑣𝑖𝑖
Graph connectivity
Geometry [
Junction
𝑖𝑖
Coordinates 𝑥𝑖𝑖
Node features
Strut 𝑟 𝑖𝑖𝑗𝑗
Length 𝑙𝑖𝑖𝑗𝑗
𝑗𝑗
A B
2 4′
4
1 3 2′
1′
3′
3 ≡ 3′
4 ≡ 1′
2 ≡ 4′
𝑖𝑖
C
𝜀𝜀 (%)
𝜎𝜎/𝐸𝐸𝑠 (-)
0.0
1.2
× 10−3
0 30
(i)
𝜀𝜀 (%)
0 30
0.0
1.0
× 10−3
(ii)
𝜀𝜀 (%)
0 30
0.0
5.0
𝜎𝜎/𝐸𝐸𝑠 (-)
𝜎𝜎/𝐸𝐸𝑠 (-)
× 10−4
(iii)
(i), (ii), (iii)
Transmission, 𝑇𝑇 (dB)
Frequency, 𝑓𝑓 (Hz)
Vibration transmission
(i) (ii) (iii)
D
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
𝑇𝑇 = Output/Input
Output
Input

--- PAGE 12 ---
12
Fig. 2. Overview of GraphMetaMat. Example of inverse design of a metamaterial for target
transmission response. The target curve is from the 90:5:5 split test set. (A) Steps of inverse design in
graph space using IL, RL, and MCTS. The action space, {𝒂𝒂} is composed of all the possible nodes that
can be selected, the edges that connect the chosen node with the previous node at each step 𝑘𝑘, and the
relative density, 𝜌𝜌. IL maximizes the probability 𝑝𝑝�𝐺𝐺𝑘𝑘� of generating the true graph 𝐺𝐺𝑘𝑘, associated with
the target curve 𝑦𝑦. RL maximizes the reward 𝑅𝑅(𝑦𝑦, 𝑦𝑦), function of the error between the target (𝑦𝑦) and
predicted (𝑦𝑦) response. A schematic representation of the search tree executed during MCTS is illustrated
on the right side. (B) A state-action (𝒔𝒔𝑘𝑘, 𝒂𝒂𝑘𝑘) sequence predicted by the policy network 𝜋𝜋𝜃𝜃(∙ |𝒔𝒔𝑘𝑘) for a
given input desired response. (C) After each training iteration, the trained forward model is called to
predict the functional response of the generated metamaterial. The error between this prediction (𝑦𝑦) and
the target response (𝑦𝑦) guides the training of the RL step. (D) 3D-printing and testing of the
corresponding finite-size structure for validation. The plot compares the experimental transmission (‘3D-
printed’) to the target response. Scale bar, 10 mm.
Desired response
GraphMetaMat
𝒔𝒔𝑲 = (𝑮𝑲, 𝒚)
…
𝒂𝒂𝟏 𝒂𝒂𝟐
𝒂𝒂𝟎 𝒂𝒂𝑲
𝒔𝒔𝟎 𝒔𝒔𝟏
Policy network
𝒂𝒂𝑘𝑘∼ 𝜋𝜋𝜃∙ 𝒔𝒔𝑘𝑘 )
Imitation
learning (IL)
Reinforcement
learning (RL)
Monte Carlo tree
search (MCTS)
Training Inference
Frequency, 𝑓𝑓
Transmission, 𝑇𝑇
Target
3D-printed
𝒔𝒔𝟏
𝒔𝒔𝟎
𝒔𝒔𝟐
𝒔𝒔𝑲
Action space 𝒂𝒂
𝜌𝜌 ∈ 𝜌𝜌𝑚𝑚𝑖𝑖𝑛𝑛 , 𝜌𝜌𝑚𝑚𝑎𝑥
Nodes
Edges
1 2 3
3 2
1
Forward
model
max
𝜃
𝑅𝑅 𝑦𝑦, y
max
𝜃 𝑝𝑝 Gk
3D-printing
A
B
D
Graph generation
Response prediction
C
Generated graph
Target (𝑦𝑦)
Pred. (𝑦𝑦)
Frequency, 𝑓𝑓
Transmission, 𝑇𝑇
𝐺𝐺𝑘𝑘 , 𝑦𝑦 → ground-truth
𝐺𝐺𝑘𝑘 , 𝑦𝑦 → prediction

--- PAGE 13 ---
13
Fig. 3. Design of structures with user-defined functional responses. (A) Four types of unseen stress-
strain curves. (i) Stiffer and stronger. (ii) Convex strain-hardening. (iii) Concave strain-hardening. (iv)
Softer. (B) One example of inverse design for each curve type. (C) Corresponding generated graphs for
the stress-strain responses in (B). (D) Target binary transmission sequences with two variable attenuation
gaps of size 𝛥𝛥𝛥𝛥= 1.4, 2.1, 2.7 kHz, for type (i), (ii), (iii), respectively. (E) One example of inverse design
for each sequence type. The transmission threshold 𝑇𝑇 𝑡𝑡ℎ is set to −10 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑. (F) Corresponding generated
graphs for the transmission responses in (E). The relative error and accuracy between the prediction and
target (‘Pred’), the best train match and target (‘Train’), and between the simulation of the generated
graph and target (‘Sim’) are reported for each example in the plots in (B) and (E).
B
D
F
𝑇𝑇 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑
𝜌𝜌 = 11.5 %
A
𝑘𝑘𝜎𝜎
Norm. stress 𝜎𝜎/𝐸𝐸𝑠 (-)
Strain, 𝜀𝜀 %
𝑘𝑘𝐸𝐸𝑠𝑜𝑓𝑓𝑡 𝜀𝜀
Strain, 𝜀𝜀 %
𝜀𝜀 %
𝜎𝜎/𝐸𝐸𝑠 (-)
𝜌𝜌 = 30.0 % 𝜌𝜌 = 2.0 %
C
E
(i)
(iv)
(iii)
(ii)
Prediction
Target Best train match
Simulation
Pred: 0.0198
Train: 0.0382
Sim: 0.0189
Pred: 0.0685
Train: 2.94
Sim: 0.101
(i)
(ii)
(iii) (iv)
𝜌𝜌 = 12.1 % 𝜌𝜌 = 10.5 %
𝑓𝑓 (kHz)
(i) (ii) (iii)
𝑓𝑓 (kHz)
Pred: 0.0345
Train: 0.0251
Sim: 0.214
𝜌𝜌 = 30.0 % 𝜌𝜌 = 25.0 %
Target
𝑇𝑇 𝑡ℎ =−10 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑
Simulation Best train
match
Prediction
Pred: 0.0650
Train: 0.108
Sim: 0.304
Pred: 0.77
Train: 0.37
Sim: 0.48
Pred: 0.79
Train: 0.5
Sim: 0.66
Pred: 0.80
Train: 0.68
Sim: 0.72
∼ 2.7 kHz∼ 2.1 kHz∼ 1.4 kHz (ii) (iii)
(i)
…
𝑇𝑇 < 𝑇𝑇 𝑡ℎ 𝑇𝑇 ≥ 𝑇𝑇 𝑡ℎ
… …
Δ𝑓𝑓
Target stress -strain responses Target binary transmission responses

--- PAGE 14 ---
14
Fig. 4. Design of energy-absorbing structures. (A) Commercial lacrosse chest protector, showing the
two locations where foam samples were extracted. (B) Nominal stress-strain curves of two representative
four-layer foam sandwich samples, tested under quasi-static compression up to the onset of densification.
The inset shows a snapshot of the sample during testing. Scale bar, 10 mm. (C) Target responses based on
the foam sandwich baseline’ stress-strain curve up to 30 % of strain. On the left plot, target curves for
lower peak stress but same absorbed energy. On the right plot, target curves for lower peak stress and
higher absorbed energy. The error bar identifies the deviation between tested foam samples. (D) Example
of inverse-designed 5 × 5 × 5 metamaterial with target response corresponding to 30 % lower peak stress
and 20 % higher energy absorption (with respect to the baseline). The main plot reports the
experimentally measured stress-strain responses of the foam sandwich, the 3D-printed generated design
and two classic 3D truss metamaterials, Kelvin foam and octet truss, up to densification. Four snapshots
from a representative compressive test of the generated metamaterial are presented at different stages of
deformation. Scale bar, 25 mm. The inset on the left shows a comparison of these curves along with the
target and predicted responses up to 30% strain, the limit strain used for training GraphMetaMat. The
labels ‘Pred.’ and ‘Exp.’ indicate the predicted and experimentally measured responses of the generated
metamaterial. The Kelvin foam and octet-truss metamaterials were 3D-printed with same relative density
𝜌𝜌= 10 % as our design. (E) Energy absorption, 𝑈𝑈 vs. peak stress, 𝜎𝜎max up to 30 % strain.
𝜀𝜀 %
𝜎𝜎 (MPa)
D
Sample locations
Target responses
Stress, 𝜎𝜎 (MPa)
Strain, 𝜀𝜀 %
A B C
Same
energy
Lower
peak stress
𝜎𝜎 (MPa)
𝜀𝜀 %
Lower
peak stress
Higher energy
𝜀𝜀 %
Foams Foams
𝜀𝜀 %
𝜎𝜎 (MPa)
Kelvin
Octet
Target
Exp.
Pred.
Foams
𝜎𝜎max (MPa)
𝑈𝑈 (J/m3)
E
(1) (2) (3) (4)
𝜌𝜌 = 10 %
Generated metamaterial
(1) (2) (3) (4)
Foams
Exp.
Kelvin
Octet

--- PAGE 15 ---
15
Fig. 5. Design of noise-control structures. (A) Sources of noise in electric vehicles. (B) Typical sound
pressure level of internal combustion engines (ICE) and electrical vehicles (EV) in the frequency range 1
– 12 kHz, at 120 𝑘𝑘𝑘𝑘/ℎ (45). The pure tonal peaks correspond to 4 and 8 times the number of poles in the
electric motor. (C) Constant target transmission curves, from 5 to – 40 dB. (D) Relative density
comparison between inverse-designed structures, (i) – (iv), and benchmark, BM (46). (E) Transmission
responses obtained from the inverse design of noise-control structures with decreasing transmission target
level (‘Target’). Labels ‘Pred.’ and ‘Exp.’ indicate the predicted and experimentally measured responses
of the generated metamaterial, respectively. The response of the benchmark, ‘BM’ is the same in the four
plots. (F) 3D-printed inverse-designed structures with the corresponding graph and relative density, 𝜌𝜌.
Scale bar, 10 mm.
Lower transmission
E F
(i) (ii)
(iii) (iv)
A C
BM (i)
𝜌𝜌 (%)
D
(ii) (iii)(iv)
Airborne Noise
(Noise transmission)
Structure-borne Noise
(Noise radiation)
Receiver
Electric engine
(Noise source) Structural
vibration
Vibration-damping
panel
B
EV
ICE
Pure
tones
𝜌𝜌 = 25.0 % 𝜌𝜌 = 15.77 % 𝜌𝜌 = 6.85 % 𝜌𝜌 = 5.0 %
(i) (ii) (iii) (iv)
Target levels
Pred.
Target Exp. BM

--- PAGE 16 ---
16
Materials and Methods
Graph representation
Truss metamaterials are represented as graphs 𝐺𝐺(𝑉𝑉, 𝐸𝐸), i.e., a collection of nodes 𝑉𝑉 connected
through edges 𝐸𝐸. The intersection between struts is represented in graph space by 𝑉𝑉, while the
struts by 𝐸𝐸. We note that a dual representation of 𝐺𝐺 can also be used; however, we did not find any
computational advantage and/or performance improvement in our case studies. The geometry of
the structure is encoded into node 𝑣𝑣𝑖𝑖 ∈ 𝑉𝑉 and edge 𝑒𝑒𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖 ∈ 𝐸𝐸 features for each 𝑖𝑖, 𝑗𝑗 node. Any
geometric features of the structure, such as node coordinates, struts’ length, shape, orientation, and
angle between struts, can be encoded into 𝑣𝑣𝑖𝑖 and 𝑒𝑒𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖. Based on empirical experiments on the model
architecture used here (tables from S1 to S6), we observed that encoding the nodal coordinates as
𝑣𝑣𝑖𝑖 and the struts’ length as 𝑒𝑒𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖 outperforms configurations with additional geometrical information.
For the sake of simplicity, we assume circular struts with uniform radius. To uniquely determine
the metamaterial’ geometry, relative density 𝜌𝜌 is the additional geometric parameter that has to be
encoded into the graph representation. Unlike node coordinates or strut lengths, which take unique
values for different nodes and edges, relative density is a global property for periodic
metamaterials, describing all the strut radii with a single value. Hence, instead of encoding 𝜌𝜌 as a
node or edge feature, processed via the GNN, we input it into subsequent model’s layers (see
Supplementary Text “Forward model details”). The topology of the structure is inherently encoded
by the graph connectivity.
Finite element simulations
The stress-strain and elastic wave transmission responses were collected via high-fidelity
finite element (FE) simulations. To reduce the computational cost of training data collection, 2 × 2
× 2 periodic metamaterials were simulated under quasi-static and dynamic vibration excitations
(see Supplementary Text “Finite-size effect” for a sensitivity analysis on 𝑀𝑀 × 𝑀𝑀 × 𝑀𝑀 tessellations
with 𝑀𝑀 > 2).
Stress-strain
As schematically shown in Fig. 1D, to collect the stress-strain curves, we performed quasi-
static compressive simulations of the metamaterials between two rigid plates. The structure is
constrained to the bottom and top plate, while a vertical displacement 𝑢𝑢∗ is applied to the top plate,
corresponding to the final macroscopic strain 𝜀𝜀𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚 via 𝑢𝑢∗
= 𝜀𝜀𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑚𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀. 𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀 corresponds to the
initial height of the structure, with 𝐿𝐿 being the unit cell size, and 𝑀𝑀 the number of unit cells. In our
case, 𝑀𝑀 = 2, and 𝐿𝐿 = 25 mm. It is crucial to note that our inverse design framework is scale
independent as far as the training data are consistent with the constitutive material’s behavior. The
stress is computed as 𝐹𝐹/𝐴𝐴 where 𝐹𝐹 is the total reaction force measured at the bottom plate, and
𝐴𝐴= 𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀 × 𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀 is the cross-sectional area of the lattice. The applied strain is computed as 𝜀𝜀 =
𝑢𝑢/(𝑀𝑀𝑀𝑀), where 𝑢𝑢 corresponds to the applied displacement on the top plate. As a post-processing
phase, the collected responses are filtered to remove high-frequency numerical oscillations. The
constitutive material is modeled as linear elastic with Young’s modulus 𝐸𝐸𝑠𝑠
= 4.0 MPa, and
Poisson’s ratio 𝜈𝜈𝑠𝑠
= 0.3, with properties of the Formlabs Flexible 80A material. Owing to its large
strain at failure, fracture of the constitutive material is not here considered (see Materials and
Methods “Constitutive materials characterization”). Abaqus/Explicit is employed to simulate the
structures up to 30 % of strain. Quasi-static conditions are ensured by limiting the kinetic energy
within 1 % of the internal energy. Geometric nonlinearities and frictionless contact are modeled.
To validate the explicit solver results, we compared the stress-strain responses and deformed
shapes of a complex heterogeneous structure using an implicit solver (Abaqus/Standard) (fig. S10).

--- PAGE 17 ---
17
The structures are meshed using four-node tetrahedral elements (C3D4 in Abaqus) with average
size 2𝑅𝑅, where 𝑅𝑅 is the beam’s radius, depending on the structure and relative density. A mesh
sensitivity analysis was performed to balance accuracy and speed. Strength and stiffness reported
in the inset of Fig. 1D are defined as the peak stress and slope of the curve at 𝜀𝜀 = 0.1 %,
respectively.
Wave transmission
The transmission curves were obtained via vibration simulations using the Solid Mechanics
module in COMSOL Multiphysics 6.0. To resemble application conditions and to ensure
experimental reproducibility, lattice-cored sandwich structures are considered, meaning the plates
are not rigid but modeled with the same constitutive material (fig. S9). Here, we set unit cell size
𝐿𝐿 = 10 mm and tessellation of unit cells 𝑀𝑀 = 2. A sinusoidal excitation force is applied on the
bottom plate within a 4.5 mm radius circular region, matching the shaker contact area in the
experimental setup (see fig. S9B and Materials and Methods “Mechanical Testing”). A harmonic
frequency sweep is performed in the range of 1–12 kHz. The wave transmission curve along the
excitation direction, measured in decibel (dB), is then calculated by 20 log10(𝑢𝑢𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜/𝑢𝑢𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖), where
𝑢𝑢𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖 is the input displacement averaged over the shaker contact area and 𝑢𝑢𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 is the output
displacement at the center point of the top plate. This output displacement corresponds to the
displacement measured by the laser vibrometer (LDV) during experimental testing. The
constitutive material, TMPTA, is modeled as viscoelastic with frequency-dependent storage
Young’s modulus 𝐸𝐸𝑠𝑠
′(𝑓𝑓), and loss factor tan(𝛿𝛿) (𝑓𝑓), constant Poisson’s ratio 𝜈𝜈𝑠𝑠
= 0.3, and density
𝜌𝜌𝑠𝑠
= 1050 kg/m3
. (see Materials and Methods “Constitutive materials characterization”). The
structures are meshed using four-node tetrahedral elements with minimum and maximum size 𝑅𝑅
and 2𝑅𝑅, respectively, where 𝑅𝑅 is the beam’s radius, depending on the structure and relative density.
A mesh sensitivity analysis was performed to balance accuracy and speed. As a post-processing
phase, in agreement with our measurement system (fig. S9B), noise floor was set to −40 dB,
making the transmission responses flat for values below −40 dB.
Sample fabrication
Samples were fabricated by using a digital light 3D-printer Anycubic Photon Ultra and D2
(ANYCUBIC Technology Co., Ltd) for compressive and transmission response design,
respectively. To reach large deformations without catastrophic failure, the samples for quasi-static
compressive responses are made of a commercial photosensitive resin, Flexible 80A (Formlabs
Inc., Somerville, MA). To improve printability, we added 0.0125wt% photoabsorber to it. With
this resin, slice thickness and exposure time were set to 0.050 mm and 15 s, respectively. To reduce
the viscoelastic damping effect at higher frequencies, the samples for vibration transmission
responses are made of a brittle material, denoted as TMPTA. This latter is an in-house
photosensitive resin composed of trimethylolpropane triacrylate (Sigma‒Aldrich Inc., St. Louis,
MO) with 0.0125wt% photoabsorber and 2wt% phenylbis(2,4,6-trimethylbenzoyl) phosphine
oxide photoinitiator (Sigma‒Aldrich Inc., St. Louis, MO). With this resin, slice thickness and
exposure time are set to 0.040 mm and 5 s, respectively. To balance 3D-printing resolution,
printing volume and testing machine maximum load capacity, the samples for stress-strain
response are fabricated with a unit cell size of 25 mm, being scale independent at mm-scale. On
the contrary, the samples for wave transmission response design are fabricated with an as-designed
unit cell size of 10 mm. After fabrication, all samples are cleaned with ethanol and dried in a dark
environment for at least 24 hours.
Constitutive materials characterization

--- PAGE 18 ---
18
For quasi-static properties, dog-bone samples made of flexible resin (Flexible 80A) were
fabricated employing the same printer and printing parameters used for the lattice samples. The
samples were tested under quasi-static uniaxial tensile loading using a universal testing machine,
Instron 5944 (Instron Corporation, Norwood, MA). The strain rate was set to 10−3s−1
. Fig. S8B
shows the resulting stress-strain curves for three different printing directions. Although a certain
degree of anisotropy is found for strength and strain at failure, we assume our structures will not
fail up to 30 % of macroscopic strain (based on experimental observations, see Fig. 4D).
Accordingly, a linear elastic material model with 𝐸𝐸𝑠𝑠
= 4 MPa was fitted on these data.
Dynamic mechanical analysis (DMA, Q800 model, TA Instruments; fig. S8D) was used to
characterize the viscoelastic properties of the material TMPTA, including the storage modulus 𝐸𝐸𝑠𝑠
′
and the loss modulus (𝐸𝐸𝑠𝑠
′′). The loss factor, tan(𝛿𝛿), which is the ratio between 𝐸𝐸𝑠𝑠
′′ and 𝐸𝐸𝑠𝑠
′
, was also
obtained. Specimens with dimensions of 25 mm length, 8 mm width, and 1 mm thickness were
used for DMA measurements. A dynamic displacement with an oscillation amplitude of 5 μm was
applied to the specimens over a frequency range of 0.1 Hz to 100 Hz, with 16 points sampled on a
logarithmic scale. The measurements were conducted at temperatures ranging from -2°C to 22°C,
with intervals of 3°C. The time-temperature superposition (TTS) principle was used to estimate
the master curve by shifting each measured isotherms along the frequency axis to align with the
selected reference temperature of 22°C (51). Master curves for 𝐸𝐸𝑠𝑠
′′
, 𝐸𝐸𝑠𝑠
′ and the corresponding
tan(𝛿𝛿) are obtained from 0.1 Hz to 10 kHz (fig. S8, E to G) and are next used for modeling the
transmission curve in COMSOL. At least three samples per constitutive material were tested.
Mechanical testing
All quasi-static compression tests were performed by using a universal testing machine,
Instron 5944 (Instron Corporation, Norwood, MA). The samples are compressed between the
stationary and moving steel plates. To resemble the boundary conditions used in the training
dataset, the samples are fixed on the two plates. Force-displacement curves are measured by the
Instron load cell with a maximum capacity of 2000 N and the built-in crosshead encoder. Stress-
strain curves are computed analogously to what is done for FE simulations. The strain rate for all
tests is set to 10−3s−1
.
Vibration tests were performed by using an electrodynamical shaker, LDS (Ling Dynamic
Systems, Ltd, UK), and a laser scanning vibrometer Polytec PSV-500 (Polytec Inc.). The sample
was fixed to the shaker using a clear epoxy (Devcon). As schematically reported in fig. S9B, to
vertically excite the samples, a sine sweep voltage, from 500 to 12500 Hz, is applied to the shaker.
The following parameters were used: total sweep time of 65.54 s, amplitude voltage 5 V, FFT
measurement mode with average of the magnitude on three measurements, sampling frequency
31.25 kHz, and frequency resolution ∼15 mHz. The laser vibrometer is used to measure the
acceleration spectrum 𝐴𝐴(𝑓𝑓) of a vibrating point. We first measure the acceleration of the shaker
𝐴𝐴shaker(𝑓𝑓) without any sample. Then, to resemble the boundary conditions used in the training
dataset, we measure the acceleration of the center point of the top plate of the sample 𝐴𝐴structure(𝑓𝑓)
(fig. S9A). From the definition of wave transmission, we finally compute the transmission
response as 𝑇𝑇(𝑓𝑓) = 𝐴𝐴structure(𝑓𝑓)/𝐴𝐴shaker(𝑓𝑓), where 𝐴𝐴shaker(𝑓𝑓) represents the acceleration input
to structure’s bottom plate. The noise floor of the system is around −40 dB. For quasi-static
compression and vibration tests, at least three samples per structure were tested.
GraphMetaMat
The proposed inverse-design framework is implemented in Python 3.9, within the PyTorch
environment. Details are reported in the Supplementary Text.

--- PAGE 19 ---
19
Target responses
Stress-strain
The user-defined target curves reported in Fig. 3A are designed to provide enough diversity
of out-of-distribution responses whose corresponding structure is not known a priori. Curve type
(i) is constructed by rescaling the response of the stiffest and strongest lattice in the dataset by a
factor 𝑘𝑘 ∈ [1.1,2]. Such response resembles an elastic perfect-plastic behavior. Type (ii) are
convex stiffening curves following 𝜎𝜎 = 0.1𝐸𝐸𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠(𝜀𝜀 + 𝑘𝑘𝜀𝜀2), with 𝑘𝑘 ∈ [1,10]. Type (iii) are
concave curves obtained by 𝜎𝜎 = 0.5𝐸𝐸𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠(𝜀𝜀 − 𝑘𝑘𝜀𝜀2), where 𝐸𝐸𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠 is the stiffness of the most rigid
structure in the dataset, and 𝑘𝑘 ∈ [1,3]. Curve type (iv) is a linear response obtained by 𝜎𝜎 =
𝑘𝑘𝐸𝐸𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝜀𝜀, where 𝐸𝐸𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠𝑠 is the stiffness of the most compliant lattice in the dataset, 𝜀𝜀 is the strain,
and 𝑘𝑘 ∈ [0.1,0.9]. 40,000 curves were generated for training and testing the inverse model by
linearly sampling 𝑘𝑘 with 10,000 points for each curve type.
The application-oriented target curves shown in Fig. 4C answer the need for higher energy
absorption and lower peak stress by resembling an elastic perfect-plastic behavior. Using the quasi-
static compressive response of foams in commercial chest protectors as baseline, 5,000 curves
were generated by combining peak stress reduction in the range 5− 30 % and energy absorption
increase in the range 0− 20 %. Given an energy absorption gain, i.e., larger area underneath the
curve, the stiffness of the structure is accordingly adjusted for each peak stress reduction.
Wave transmission
The target binary sequences shown in Fig. 3D are constructed to inverse design metamaterials
with tunable attenuation gaps, i.e., low transmission 𝑇𝑇(𝑓𝑓) in specific frequency ranges. The vector
sequences are generated by first discretizing the frequency range into 16 intervals, and initializing
the vectors with ‘1’s. Then, two attenuation gaps, i.e., parts of the vectors filled with ‘0’s, of size
0 < 𝑛𝑛 < 8, are randomly dispersed into the sequences without overlapping. The gaps have a
frequency size Δ𝑓𝑓=
𝑛𝑛
16
∗ 11 kHz. By varying 𝑛𝑛, we construct three types of sequences (i), (ii), and
(iii), with Δ𝑓𝑓 ∼ 1.4, 2.1, 2.7 kHz, respectively. 55, 28, and 10 sequences were generated for type
(i), (ii), and (iii), respectively.
The application-oriented target curves in Fig. 4H are constant transmission responses from 5
down to – 40 dB, in the frequency range 1 – 12 kHz. In total, we generated 1,000 curves for training
and testing our framework. Rather than designing metamaterials with constant transmission, with
these target curves, we aim at challenging GraphMetaMat to design structures with tunable average
transmission as well as to progressively discover structures with low transmission.